# 01_OS

This is an Operating System Kernel created from scratch using OpenAI 01 Model.
The aim of this project is to evaluate how capable the 01 model is at performing creating complex software systems.

The original conversation with 01 Preview that created all the code in this repo is here https://chatgpt.com/share/66e59848-36d8-8005-8d8f-b0ce8da7dd1e


# Testing the Kernel

You can test the kernel in the qemu emulator, virtual machine or burn it into a USB stick and boot it on a physical computer.
Below are instructions to run it in qemu.

1. Download the pre-built iso file here {LINK}

2. If you don't have qemu installed on your linux machine, run the following command to download it.

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install qemu qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients bridge-utils

3. Run `qemu-system-x86_64 --version` to verify it is installed properly

4. Run 01_OS 

    qemu-system-i386 -cdrom 01_OS.iso

This should load up the screen below

    [image]

If this loads as seen above, you have just run a simple os kernel created by an AI Model!


# Building the Kernel

If you want to have fun building the kernel yourself or even modifying it, below are step by step instructions to follow.
These instructions were generated by the 01 model!

The instructions below assumes you are running Linux.

## Clone the repo

    git clone https://github.com/johnolafenwa/01_OS

## Install Required Packages

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install build-essential bison flex libgmp3-dev libmpc-dev libmpfr-dev texinfo \
                 grub-pc-bin xorriso qemu-system-x86 nasm mtools



## Setup the Cross Compiler to avoid conflict with system binaries

Step 1. Download GCC and Binutils Sources
   
    mkdir ~/opt
    cd ~/opt
    wget https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/binutils/binutils-2.38.tar.gz
    wget https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gcc/gcc-11.2.0/gcc-11.2.0.tar.gz

    tar -xzf binutils-2.38.tar.gz
    tar -xzf gcc-11.2.0.tar.gz

Step 2. Build and Install Binutils

    mkdir build-binutils
    cd build-binutils
    ../binutils-2.38/configure --target=i686-elf --prefix="$HOME/opt/cross" --with-sysroot \
                            --disable-nls --disable-werror
    make
    make install
    cd ..

Step 3. Build and Install GCC
    
    mkdir build-gcc
    cd build-gcc
    ../gcc-11.2.0/configure --target=i686-elf --prefix="$HOME/opt/cross" --disable-nls \
                            --enable-languages=c,c++ --without-headers
    make all-gcc
    make all-target-libgcc
    make install-gcc
    make install-target-libgcc
    cd ..

Step 4. Update Your Path

    echo 'export PATH="$HOME/opt/cross/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
    source ~/.bashrc

Step 5. Verify the cross compiler is installed

    i686-elf-gcc --version

## Open a terminal in the `kernel` directory of this repo

## Build to Kernel


Step 1. Run make

    make clean
    make

The above will produce kernel.bin

Step 2. Copy the bin file

    cp kernel.bin isodir/boot/kernel.bin

Step 3. Create the OS .iso file

    grub-mkrescue -o 01_OS.iso isodir

Now, you should see 01_OS.iso in the isodir, you can boot the OS with these file, burn it to a disk and load it onto a physical machine, or you can load it in a VM

Step 4. Run it with qemu

    qemu-system-i386 -cdrom 01_OS.iso

To navigate out of the qemu emulator, simply run `ctrl - alt - G`









    

